The Evening with Vladimir Soloviev
Donald Trump ordered Mike Pompeo to create new list of sanctions against Russia
We are not surprised. Furthermore, EU will also think about the prolongation of sanctions against Russia.
However, the Europe may soon face the limitations from the USA itself!
But they are trying to say that the USA can't be a financial police for the entire planet
The world of politics has degrade to the level of mutual sanction attacks.
We can't find an agreement with Trump, and it's obvious that we won't be able to do this in the future.
But the position of Europe reminds me an old Ukrainian joke
Where are you going, Mikola? - I will try to find a Moskal (offensive name for Russians) in order to shoot him!
And what if he shoots you? - Why would he do that to me??
So it turns out to be that European sanctions against Russia are more than OK
and now when they are ready to face sanctions for the cooperation with Iran, they are trying to say: "Wait! We didn't agree like that!"
We are your friends! Yes, yes!
It sounds so kind, but Europe has a really difficult situation now. For example, Tusk says the following
It can't be the truth! While Macron has already understood everything
He said that France is not going to have a trade war with the USA.
And it's really funny to see that the USA plans to impose new sanctions again and again
I can repeat this sentence every single day because the USA is not hiding it anymore...
Recently they told that they don't like the North Stream 2. Maybe they don't like it because they want to supply their shale oil to Europe?
They told that they don't like it due to several political and energetic reasons.
In other words, they've lost the last drops of shame these days
About the North Stream 2... It was Sandra Oudkirk...
She's a Deputy Assistant in the Energy Bureau of the State Department of the USA
She said that the North Stream 2 is a real threat to the safety of Europe
She says about the energetic threat, and the need to diversify energy resources
And Europe wants to follow her advice because they plan to build new terminals to received gas from the USA
So why wouldn't the USA impose these sanctions... especially keeping in mind the position of Europe
I want to say that Europe has significantly degraded during the last years. They approved two acts in 1996
I'm talking about the Helms-Burton Act, and Dea Meite (unclear) Act, which imposed sanctions for trading with Iran
and Cuba. Those were two Acts, which imposed new sanctions in the field of trading.
But at that time Europe managed to do something. They consolidated their efforts, and approved a blocking act
which allowed European companies to ignore sanctions imposed by the USA against them.
Will Europe do the same today? As we know, Macron has already told us that France is not going to start the war of sanctions with the USA
Otherwise, some people may think that we are an ally of Iran
Ayatollah can't approach Macron and take some dandruff off
After more than 20 years we can see that the USA managed to put Europe in a very complex position
Trump just "renders the bills". Obama was soft, and he tried to do the same, but in a very different manner
Trump is a direct man. He says that Europe has to pay for the safety by providing the most favorable conditions for American business
There's no surprise in this situation because when you want to exchange your sovereignty for something else, ignoring they key elements of independence
By giving your safety to the hands of a totally different country, you will get exactly the same results
So there's no surprise here...
I think that we are talking not about new sanctions, but about a new and long period of protectionism
and economical nationalism
Trump became the President, and he did something really incredible, i. e. he started to do what he promised before the elections
And I have to say that he's pretty successful in this field
I want to say that only his promises resulted in the restoration of the working places and fast growth of the economy
We can see that his harsh action towards Europe and China don't lead to a catastrophe with those key partners
The commodity circulation increased by 13% (between China and USA)
Donald calls Chinese President "his friend" by saying that "My friend and I are going to discuss something now"
We can see the rough way of interaction, which can result in new agreements with the more favorable conditions for the industrial companies in the USA
What can we do? We can complain a lot, saying how bad they are. We can also make some conclusions from this case.
We need to understand that we entered the new era of protectionism, and we have to adjust our own behavioral models
We need to forget about the limitless appellations to the principles of free trade
We need to become a tough protectionist of our own industrial companies...
Don't do what the USA say, but do the same what they do, am I right?
Yes, you are! There's a proverb about the USA. It was used in the USA towards British people
Don't listen British people, but look what they do
It was relevant because Great Britain was always talking about free trade, using incredibly harsh protectionism to help their own industrial companies.
That was a very "funny time", when the Minister of Finances could be killed by a vice prime-minister, and nobody would be arrested.
Hamilton told that they needed to stop that foolishness, and imposed incredible protectionist measures.
And that was the day when the USA became an industrial state
Do you know that the famous quote about the "invisible hand of the market" was told as a praise?
Smith wanted to praise the protectionism of King Henry.
He said that such measures will create an "invisible hand", which will lead the industrial companies to success.
So the first thing we have to do is to forget about three letters: W, T, and O
I was afraid that you were going to prohibit people to use obscene words (the most famous Russian word consists of 3 letters).
I'm not as radical as you may think, Vladimir.
It's impossible! (about the bad words)
We have it in our subconsciousness. If you want to call it, you need to drop a brick on your foot, and forgotten words will come out automatically.
We need to forget about WTO! What else?
WTO says that they rules may be eliminated in case of a war or another emergency situations
And now we have such an emergency case!
How many times have you heard that Russian economy was adjusted to sanctions?
It's not good or bad, it's just wrong! We don't have to think that...
we are able to adjust to all new changes. This strategic battle is developing every single day
We are talking not about sanctions, but about the war of sanctions
And what's the difference between the war and a long camping in the mountains?
During the war a conscious enemy is watching your actions, preparing adequate responses for each of them
And these sanctions are not just onetime measures, but a real war that will continue for many days and years in a row
So we need to think not only about the current day, but also about all the next steps in this difficult game.
You know that I have my own opinion about sanctions.
I know that you are against them.
Yes.
I want to say that we are using this word, which came from the political vocabulary of the USA
This term may include virtually anything: tariff regulations, import and export restrictions
limitations in the field of trade and finances for many countries
I think that each and every country in the world has this mechanism
We call is "sanctions", but even Russia has it, as well as many other small countries, which have to build relations with their neighbors
Just the USA are big, and when they impose something, all countries are affected
Russia did the same thing many times! You can use a different word, but just remember that one day Russia didn't like wine from Georgia
The USA tries to apply their rules on the territory of different countries, and that's the difference
I remember the law on the special economic rules, which was approved in 2006... Maybe I'm wrong, and experts will tell the exact date.
Those are not sanction, but can bring a lot of benefits
The USA created the foundation for sanctions in the 70's.. It was a normal thing during the Cold War, and it didn't cause any problems
Both the USSR and the USA imposed numerous limitations... As a liberal, I'm against any limitations, including the field of trading
But we need to be realists... Any politician will protect their market by using the law available in the country
I agree that the USA has a developed system of sanctions, and Russia needs to do the same in order to create required laws to protect its interests.
We are living in this reality for the last 2-3 centuries... various limitations, WTO and so on
We didn't use "sanction" word, but we had to choose reliable partners and so on
I want to say that all kinds of Opium Wars and gunboat diplomacy were just another forms of the sanction wars
You are trying to change the history and use wrong terms now
Do you think that fees implemented to protect the production of aluminum can be called sanctions?
Sanctions are direct actions towards another country or its companies in order to change the policies
I want to say that the Opium Wars and gunboat diplomacy were exactly the same!
I want to say that they are trying to limit something, saying that all limitations can be withdrawn in case if another country makes desired actions
All economical measures are intended to improve your position and undermine the position of your enemy... You can make any other political conclusions.
Such actions can even lead to the change of power, and it happens once in a while too!
Do you remember Cuba or Iran?
Did it change in Cuba? Yes, of course after many years of the blockade.
Okay, I agree that Cuba was a wrong example, but can I continue, please?
I still think that Cuba lost, and they will become a close partner of the USA during the following dozens of years.
And there will be no communism there for sure! However...
I can understand when sanctions are imposed due to various economical reasons... but when they use political reasons without any will to protect their companies or businesses, I have a problem in my mind...
In other hand, what else can they use except sanctions in this case?
What can they do to answer the actions of their enemies? Do they have to send the army or make bombings?
This is even worse!
The USA do that too!
Not only the USA!
Look at this world! It's not only the USA!
I don't like that we don't have the order, and each country does what it wants!
What do we have to do in this case?
I think that Russia needs to do the same... You need to create required laws, and avoid using reactive policies, choosing proactive instead
Russia needs to be a leader in the new world of economy and policy!
It's not like that today because people are still worried about the reaction to the US sanctions
And Russia needs to impose such measures or sanctions to get benefits. The USA get really a lot from each stage of sanctions!
Why can't Russia use it? This mechanism is legal and acceptable!
The UN also uses the very same mechanisms, and not only the UN!
You forgot that initially only the UN was allowed to impose all kinds of sanctions!
You are wrong, Vladimir!
I want to say that the previous president, Barak Obama, tried to hide all his actions under the sauce of democracy
Trump is not even trying to do the same! He acts like an elephant in a China shop...
And sanctions is the way to adjust the US policies to the rapidly changing conditions of the world
Why are Russia and Europe are always under new sanctions? Especially Russia... Because the American establishment doesn't like that we don't want to listen to them, creating our own system of the rules.
That's why they will continue implementing new and new limitations again and again
You've told us about the Opium Wars and gunboat diplomacy
Today it's a policy of aircraft carriers. The USA use their army to solve political issues, and not economic ones.
They want to suppress weak countries, defeat strong ones, creating their own rules... That is the foundation of the modern US policy
I totally agree with Mister Zlobin that we don't have to react on the actions of the USA. Actually the Kremlin does exactly what it has to do!
I don't know if it's a result of the US sanctions, but Russian fleet with aerodynamic Caliber missiles will be located in the Mediterranean Region on the permanent basis
Whether you like it or not, you need to know that! I also think that we need to improve our political, economical and military cooperation with China.
And we need to avoid making everything to please China. We need to protect our own interests!
Now we can see that China created a giant ocean fleet in order to resist the hegemony of the USA in the southern seas
We need to highlight that Russia supports such behavior of China, and understands that China wants to protect its sovereignty.
We expect that the new block of sanctions against the defense industry on the ground of alleged violations of the agreement on short- and intermediate- range missiles usage
will be imposed really soon, and we are sure in that!
The Law on military budget for 2018 contains all this information.
Yes, we know this, it's not something new!
And I think that it's a big problem that the US intelligence failed to find any evidence that Russia tested missiles prohibited by the agreement on short- and intermediate- range missiles usage during the examination of Iskander-M complex.
The USA needs is only for one reason. They need to create a long range aerodynamic missile, and such plans are included in the military budget of the USA
They plan to spend just 58-60 million USD, but we need to understand that it's just the first stage
The USA is ready to amend and cancel any rules if such changes can bring profits or benefits for them
When the USA need to evolve technologies like it happened in case with the air defense agreement in 1972, they simply forget such agreements as useless
That's why we need to understand the modern world. It's tough and competitive, but it's not hopeless
We need to create long- or short term partnerships with countries, which are not happy with the actions and policies of the USA
I always remember the presidential campaign of Donald Trump. I was shocked with one of its moments
Someone asked him a question about the giant national debt of the USA, and he said that USA owes nothing, while other countries do owe a lot!
It reminds me the 90's in Russia! People were saying: "I forgive all my creditors now!"
He said that the USA hadn't received enough money in the frames of Marshall's Plan. He said that Western Europe hadn't paid enough
We paid 18 billion, and we had the interest rate for these years, and we will use it as a source of money for the USA
And now I understand that Donald Trump wants to dictate everything, including the situation with the North Stream 2. Just look at him!
Just look how he talks with Europe! He tells what he wants, and squeezes them financially.
When Angela Merkel tried to explain that the USA don't have enough tankers, and it's not smart to buy gas from the USA, he said that Germany wants to support Russia.
He's a real businessman, and he knows how to get profits. That's why he's so successful in this field.
We need to understand something about sanctions. I remember how Clinton said that the USA spent a lot of money to win in the Cold War (he said it in 1995).
He said that the USA reached goals, which couldn't be reached by Truman, who used a nuclear bomb.
They spent a lot of money to destroy the USSR, and suddenly Russia appears on their map again!
Trump can't accept the fact that Russia is developing right now!
He does the same mistake as the USSR at the end of the Cold War. The USSR decided to be an independent country, breaking ties with China. As a result we had to participate in two giant wars at the same time.
In the West and in the East - with China and with the USA!
Trump may face the same problems because he are too strict with both Russia and China at the same time
You've just told about the agreement on short- and intermediate- range missiles usage. The USA want to terminate it.
The USA can simply supply weapons to Taiwan, thus affecting China
They can also create something in South Korea too!
Even though they have great relations, China was mad when the USA wanted to supply weapons to Taiwan.
We need to wait until these promises are real... and now those are rumors
Trump is really smart in this case...
Have you finished your speech?
I want to agree that the USA wants to accuse Russia in order to leave the agreement on short- and intermediate- range missiles usage.
They need it to suppress China by placing these missiles in Taiwan.
We made a terrible mistake with this agreement in 1987... probable we had no real experts at that time
It affected missiles with the range of lower than 5500 km.
The agreement limited only missiles located on the ground. It never affected missiles located in the sea or the aircraft.
That agreement was created in the interests of the USA, and they are wrong by changing the rules now because they have no idea about the consequences.
We said a lot of bad things about the USA, and I like and support it.
But I always repeat that the darkest hour is near the dawn.
It's really great that we have no illusions now. The worst thing is we had to wait for such time when all actions are more than obvious!
We had to predict all these many years before, if we wanted to keep or sovereignty, and protect our interests
I'm happy that we managed to understand it at least now. There was a moment when we totally lost the connection with the reality! Totally!
Including the rulers of the country. So I want to repeat that the darkest hour is near the dawn.
1. We understood it; 2. We can explain it to other people; 3. The government can't ignore the opinion of the society
But they've just bought more securities in the USA! First they announced that they decreased it from 100 to 97 billion USD, and then bought new ones!
I think that this is the result of the selection of the very same people from the past, who worked in the financial sector before!
They main idea is to invest money, and get a small interest rate back. So they use it as a key strategy, which is wrong!
But they are wrong! And I know that constant dropping wears away a stone, and our internal freedom will change the case.
We need to feel easier about the WTO. We know that we joined it because there's a group of people that wants to sell raw materials to other countries.
It's more about metals, and not about raw material!
This new reality opens our eyes, and we can finally see the truth. We need to be free, flexible and innovative!
We need to move forward, always creating something!
I want to talk about the impossible situation with Europe. It's simply shocking!
At the time when Europe was dealing with the USSR in the frames of the Warsaw Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance, they were able to protect their interests!
They needed gas, and they entered in the agreement with the scary USSR.
Now, when there's no real threat, they became totally helpless and impotent!
This is philosophy! Just look how people and their values can affect the political system of the countries!
They have no idea how to protect their interests, even though they can protect themselves without the USA!
They were dependent before, and they needed the "umbrella" from the USA. Now there's no threat!
They are simply impotent. They were more powerful at the times of the USSR, even though there was a lot of problems too.
Because small and useless people became politics! No, wait!
That confirms the idea that the human resources is the key
You said about small people. But there's a reason to become smaller! They have a different set of values
they have no motivation these days
They don't have independence or sovereignty too! Because the EU is big and uneven!
We need to keep this in mind because many Russian people are saying that we need to find a different way of crawling in front of the USA!
We need to use it, and then we will have a great dialog with them, and so on!
Look at Europe! They can't protect their own interests! Not to mention Russia... Actually they are not our friends, and they never were friends.
Europe depends on the USA, but this dependence is not as fatal as they think!
This dependence is hidden in the head of politics!
When you are weak and dependent, and these qualities live in your head,
you will lose! And we need to learn this lesson too!
Sergey brought us to another interesting topic... We still have some free time, and we will continue after a short break
Walker said that they supply FGM-148 Javelin to show Russia that it will lose a lot of soldiers and citizens in case if the decides to act too intense.
Igor was right when he told about the Mediterranean fleet. Russia explained that it will stay there for a long time
In order to fight terrorism! Yes, but this is not the unique opportunity!
If the USA wants to talk with us using the language of "number of dead soldiers", our answer can be a really asymmetric one!
Currently, we are kind and smiling. We don't supply weapons to Taliban in Afghanistan these days.
And in many other areas... we never cooperate with powers, which are fighting against the USA
And I can't say that the USA does the same... This path is really dangerous one...
I don't even want to think about the bloody consequences of such a conflict...
A short break...
I really adore Trump! He wrote that in case if the agreement with North Korea takes place, they won't use Libyan strategy, and Kim Jong-un will be "extremely happy!"
He wrote that in Twitter: "Extremely happy"
European Commission offered a brilliant idea to increase the amount of American gas in order to remove fees against steel and aluminum from Russia.
Trump is a great guy! He talked with Stoltenberg, and told that they are great guys because they managed to collect a lot of money!
He looked around, and saw only weak people, so he decided to shake all countries around.
We need to think about our country too! They say that we are not allowed to do anything.
Otherwise, we won't have access to technologies...
I don't remember any new technologies received by Russia since 1990's.
They took a lot! They even destroyed an entire field in the 90's.
Which technologies? They always offer a box of apples, and they never offer us a set of shovels and trees to create a fruit garden here.
This is a trick! They will never give us any technology!
We need to be patient. And I want to tell you about another brilliant decision. Russian money are so safe in the USA...
Look at the money of Iran! They are so safe, that people of Iran can be 10000% sure that this money will never return to their country.
We need to regain consciousness! They made a law against us!
It says: Iran, North Korea and Russia
We need to forget about illusions! That's it!
We need to talk about the interests of the economy, and not about some abstract interests!
We discussed it yesterday! We need to wake up right away!
Talking about technologies... All our attempts to buy big industrial companies even during the "warm" period in our relations, failed one by one.
It was prohibited! I remember that Sberbank wanted to buy Opel!
Yes, Opel, Britanica and so on
Does it mean that we can't get any technologies from the West? No, it doesn't.
We need to use a different approach, working from the side and from the bottom, and not from the top.
Are you talking about the industrial intelligence (Department T), which was popular during the Soviet times?
Do you mean that too??!!
Such intelligence is not always illegal. The main thing is to track the aspiring teams and scientists.
We need to catch them at the early stage, and not when they have a Noble Prize of several billions of capital.
We offer them grants only when we see their Nobel Prize! He won't give us anything because it's too late.
And if we find a young scientists and offer him favorable conditions...
Like they do with the weapons!
Half of them was made by young people, who was noticed when they were students.
I want to say that such a legal industrial intelligence, which includes detailed tracking of the open projects...
The main source of new technologies is the hard work with aspiring scientists and intelligent people!
And this is a tradition. Even Peter the Great invited the best scientists from Europe to work here.
Such behavior allowed keeping the balance of our country in 18th and 19th centuries.
By the way, the reputation of Russia as a country that creates an additional pole of power with its own technical foundation
will only improve our positions in the eyes of new resources.
From the East and from the West too!
I want to say that the USA is walking on the edge... Trump is able to achieve desired results... yet...
But it's dangerous because secondary sanctions can't be used to often, and it such a big scale!
They made a couple of public action against Swiss Bank, German Bank and French Bank for not observing the US sanctions (!) against Iran and Sudan.
All the banks paid a lot of money... BNP Pariba paid around 9 billion USD because they want to have access to the US market.
All other banks saw that they have to respect the US sanctions, even if they work in different jurisdiction.
All European companies had no protection from the EU, dealing with the USA on their own.
You don't want to say one obvious thing. This stage is brand new. Trump managed to apply his local laws to the entire Europe!
There's no independent system of the law. Europe is defeated! Period.
The USA becomes a global empire because their laws can be applied anywhere else...
Trade wars take place for many years in a row. European and American suppliers of metals had a lot of mutual conflicts in the past.
Europe can solve such local conflicts. But they have no idea what to do with the new Imperial approach of the USA, which punishes any company in the world for violations of their local (US) laws.
In order to make an answer, Europe needs an independent financial, technological and other systems,
including consulting, audit and rating agencies too
They need to restore the infrastructure for economical sovereignty.
That's what we have to do in BRICS, attracting other European countries, which will see our success and progress.
Many people are talking about the technological breakthrough. I can make an example of such technological breakthrough...
I came from Saint Petersburg this morning. Obukhovsky Factory was build 155 years ago.
This factory received its own coat of arms and the flag from the emperor. This factory is a technological park!
It's the 21st century. 6 industrial companies are united within the JSC Concern VKO "Almaz-Antey"
Boeing is just a toy in comparison with it! There are many things, which can be shown to Russia and to the entire world!
And these are not just missiles, like S400, S500 and other components produced by VKO.
They create new technologies in the field of space, air defense, military defense.
They use each ruble invested in the military field of Russian Federation!
We need to use such technological parks, which are available all around Russia!
I want to remind you that the first decree of Putin was to create JSC Concern VKO "Almaz-Antey" as a vertically integrated holding.
This is a real gem in the crown of Russian defense industry!
The USA wants to block JSC Concern VKO "Almaz-Antey" because Calibers,
S500, and air traffic control system, which provide the national security in the air field, are made by JSC Concern VKO "Almaz-Antey".
Our defense industry is the driver of the economical growth of the country, and we shouldn't be shy of that!
Liberals are shouting that we are killing our healthcare, education and science by supporting the defense industry...
Look at Trump! He's a lobbyist of the US defense industry and the technological sector!
We need to forget about all the fixations (sounds as complexes in Russian)!
Don't throw S500 complex (word games) away!
We have to keep the missile complexes!
Vladimir, we don't need to add a lot of military things into the life. We don't need to hate the USA on the genetic level.
Remember that when in Rome do as the Romans do!
We need to show pragmatism and cynicism towards NATO, the US, and Europe.
I want to offer you a different version of your proverb: when in Rome do as the Russians do!
Nikolay Zlobin
I want to agree with your words about Trump. He manages to use all the opportunities available in his country.
He's not hiding his actions under good faith. He has an opportunity, so the country has to use it!
So he tries to use all the opportunities, getting more profits, and expanding the presence of the USA. In fact, the foreign policy is the process of expanding the presence.
The more presence you have, the more successful you are!
Americans support him because of his actions in both foreign and national policy. He brings money, creates new working places
he even managed to decrease taxes for the first time in history!
Maybe he will fail in something, but still... he explores all the opportunities of his country.
Talking about Russia. You need to evaluate what you have, and how you can use it. There has to be no fear.
It doesn't have to be only military strategy. Look at Trump! All his achievements are strictly economical!
But he has support of the Army!
He has it, but he uses only economical tools. Can Russia use such tools without involving the army? I have no answer, and you need to hear the experts.
Yes, but only with several countries.
Call it sanctions if you want, and use. Tell me, why there's no Russian mobile carriers in the Eastern Ukraine (Donbass)?
Why there's no Sberbank (Russian National Bank) in Crimea?
Because US sanctions are respected and followed. You blame them here, and you follow them in the nearest building!
I agree that Russia needs a strategy. But does it have to be made on the foundation of the contradictions with the USA?
How long can Russia hold it, keeping the real balance between two economies in mind?
Host: as long as you want!
Why do we need to oppose each other?
You need a different model. I've heard how you said that you will do something, and the USA will be affected.
Russia won't benefit from it.
We can do that, but using non-economical methods!
I understand.
The conflict between the USA and Russia is bad for both parties, but the USA can hold it much longer.
The USA has such partners as GB, Germany and France. They can support them, or make an attack if required. Furthermore, there are new partners coming soon: India for example!
Islamic countries, and even China! You have to agree that the USA and China has a lot of agreements and trading activities.
You can't say that India, China and Arabic countries are allies of the USA.
I would say that they are pro-Russian allies...
They are balancing, trying to find an optimal solution in the field of defense...
I agree that the defense industry is one of the most important things. But Saudi Arabia has the second biggest military budget in the world!
Do you take this into account? Of course not!
What are you talking about? Which units?
About expenses
They spend 10-11% of the budget.
As I know it looks as follows: 1. USA, 2. China and 3. Saudi Arabia.
But they have no success in Yemen!
That's what I'm trying to say! Such countries as Vietnam, which spend a lot of money for the defense industry, have no real presence in the world.
While economically developed countries, such as the USA have a real presence. Trump is using economical tools to expand the presence of the USA!
What is the presence of Germany and France?
It's great for Europe?
What exactly?
But the USA can order them whatever they want!
Yes, they are weak with the USA.
But they are not weak with Ukraine. They can do whatever they want with it!
Ukraine can be controlled even by the North Korea...
And Russia too, don't be shy...
Russia is a threat for Germany now...
You need to understand the end of this opposition. What will you do then?
We don't have any other option!
Do we have to be defeated?
You are happy because your neighbor is suffering, and it's not a strategy!
We face a lot of aggressive actions, so we have to protect our own interests!
You are right! Your interests!
The idea is simple. Do you think that the USA can invade Ukraine and do everything to affect our national interests?
Be ready to get other types of responses, which are not economical ones.
You were right saying about the difference in economies, but who wants to answer in the financial field?
That's what I said! Russia needs to understand its strategy!
There are many other options, and you can't say that the USA is so big that we have to fall on the ground and surrender. We did it in the 90's.
They stole everything, destroyed us, and gave no help at all!
I really think that Russia is pro-US country, and all emotions are shown only on TV and in conversations.
What do you mean by saying pro-US or anti-US? We don't have any problems between our nations.
We respect your people and culture
Is the USA a pro-Russian country?
You can't even ask this in the USA!
Then why do you create laws aimed not only at Russia, but at each and every citizen of Russia?
There are several points of conflict between Russia and the USA.
For example Iran
Iran makes no sense now
What is your interest in Ukraine?
What are looking for? Is Ukraine a neighbor of the USA?
Why do you say about neighbors?
The first sanctions were imposed because of Ukraine!
So the USA is interested in presence on the territory of all the neighbors of Russia!
I want to say something. Sergey said that all forecasts of this show came true. That's not true! Ukraine hasn't collapsed!
How? What's going on there?
Can I finish my idea! Damn!
Is it still a country?
After the creation of Novorossiya (Eastern Ukraine) and inclusion of Crimea, I've heard a lot of things during this TV show.
I was told that Ukraine would be divided into several parts...
Wait a bit...
Just wait a bit!
Let me finish!
Just wait!
I won't say anything...
We need to listen to other people.
Why would you ask me a question?
I didn't ask you anything.
You had a discussion with your ego!
While Nikolay was talking, I wanted to discuss economical problems, but I have another idea now.
The problem of Russia is that we are still trying to observe the rules in the relations with the USA.
The USA is a very vulnerable country! Incredibly vulnerable. I was there many times, and I saw it myself.
I was walking in New York along the Fifth Avenue. There's a lot of shops owned by Latin Americans.
I know some Spanish, so I told them that I worked in Cuba. They told me about Fidel, and I understood that a huge number of Americans hate the USA.
Once I spent a night with a police patrol. I had to write an article about their work.
I saw black people and their approach to the USA. We could use this opportunity to explode and fire the USA!
They tried to solve the issue by choosing Obama and the previous Secretary of State too...
We follow the rules, and we know that some things are prohibited.
We just don't know how to do that!
The USA did everything to burn the USSR. Armenians and Georgians had no problems with Nagorno-Karabakh. And at that time the USA started to send a lot of information and articles.
There's only one way to defeat Russia. You need to make different nations killing each other.
We had Chechen Republic before... If we used the same methods in the USA, we could decrease its size and the number of potential problems too.
We shall never do that! Because we will be punished by the God!
I'm sure that one day this problem will explode the USA!
Americans like to criticize their country and their government. It's not hatred!
I remember Mexicans working in California...
Did you forget mayhem in the USA? Or the methods, which were used to suppress it?
If we used the same level of violence to suppress people in Russia...
Just remember!
This is a really serious problem, and the USA have to do something with it!
I'm back to the 70's... I won't even comment this.
Was there the case of Rodney King?
It was!
How many people were killed?
Don't say that the USA lives in a miracle world!
There's no miracle!
There is, and it's called advertising...
My colleagues confirmed my idea that the USA is in the center of the world.
We have an order, but the USA is still here. We understand the power of the enemy, and we have to defend ourselves.
We have to defend not because we want to fight, and not because we hate the USA. For example, I have good feeling about the USA; otherwise, I wouldn't spend so much time with it.
We all love the USA
In other hand, we can't ignore their actions... and it breaks the balance.
We are talking about the preparation of the army, buying their securities
We pay no attention to the Consulate captured by you (USA).
We pay no attention to the behavior of the USA on the territory of our neighbors. The USA has returned to the strategy, which was used in the 90's.
I'm talking about Kazakhstan, Middle Asia, Armenia and so on.
They had such strategy before, and now they returned it.
We have to answer, but how? I can't agree that Trump is a protectionist...
The USA can't be a protectionist because more than 40% of its industrial companies are located behind the national borders.
The deficiency of goods appears as a result of the exchange between the companies.
He wants to create new balance in this situation.
Another thing is that he implements work, which was done since 1945
We are always talking about this. Europe does the same. Why can't Europe trade with Iran in Euro?
Can they buy Iranian oil for Euro and not for dollars?
Such interconnections make it hard to change the balance that was created in the late 40's
So Trump is just using things, which were founded many years ago... Is there any way to fight with pax?
No doubt that it's hard to find allies, and each of them has its own national interests.
China tries to make something against the USA, but always steps back when they get even the slightest answer from the USA.
I think that Europe is done. They couldn't enter into the constitutional agreement in 2004, and added 10 pro-USA countries
So the actions of Macron are right and correct. Europe is afraid not only of Russia.
The USA tries to press Russia and Central Asia in order to avoid consolidation of Eurasia at any cost
Their goal was the same at all times - to avoid consolidation of countries in Eurasia.
We need to do the opposite. We have to do everything to create consolidation.
Consolidation can be made by increasing the internal potential of the country.
How evil was the reaction of EU and American media after the opening of the Crimean Bridge?
Such events are more painful that the creation of new weapons and equipment, which can't be used right now.
And in case with the bridge, nobody believed in it. It supposed to be broken, stolen, forgotten and so on. But Russia did it.
If Russia manages to make a breakthrough announced by Vladimir Putin, we can become a center of attraction.
It's really hard to make it because we need to create an attractive model of development.
Is our current model attractive for the neighbors?
It is not... And we have to create a new one!
We are not fighting with the USA. We are trying to protect our sovereign rights to make our own decisions.
Talking about the model... Some aspects of your speech were right, but we are trying to follow the way given by the USA.
Our model is attractive, You can see it in the number of labor migrants, in the volume of trades, and in the level of security, The countries from Central Asia know the red line, which can't be crossed.
You said about the policy, which was used in Central Asia before. The USA had to cancel it as a result of our actions, and internal changes of the local countries, which realized what would happen.
Now about the model. It's not perfect, but we have it.
And this integration of countries in Eurasia is not an occasion. It's not a result of will of Royal Emperors and Soviet leaders.
It has a lot of real reasons. And as in case with all other big processes, it shows the dualism.
Russia wants to consolidate countries, while the West and the USA want to do everything to avoid it.
I want to say, Nikolay, that the West has no attractive model to offer to the former USSR countries
We can't offer a model. What was the model offered to Ukraine by the West?
Now Ukraine is near a catastrophe!
Talking about Central Asia... We have some things and projects in common, but Europe and USA can't offer any super model of interaction with them.
They are trying to find points of contact. You allows us going here, and we won't notice this and that.
There's no model. And I want to say that even the leaders of the former USSR countries understand all the benefits of cooperation with Russia. Another problem is that we don't want to use these opportunities!
We can give them a lot, but we don't know how to use it.
We can't normally use everything we have to offer, even though it has some specific problems.
Even Georgia and Ukraine are still keeping dozens of CIS agreements? Why? Because they enjoy benefits and advantages of such agreements!
We don't need to follow the US logic. Oh, you don't have a model. We will always have significant flaws in this logic.
This is the key problem of all former USSR countries. We are sure that we aren't good enough. And they always want some preferences from us.
You have to give us a lot, and we don't have to because you don't have an attractive model
Even though it has some truth, mainly it contains from the lack of self-confidence created with our own hands.
A few words about the internal factors.
We have a few people, who prefer globalism. For example, Nikolay, who always says about the big global world.
And the majority of people prefers to develop the sovereignty. While the minority tries to push the idea of a big united world.
Why? Because they want to earn a lot of money! While in fact we need to protect our sovereignty
Otherwise, we won't be able to do anything, while politics will continue getting their interest rate because it's easier
And the last moment, which always creates disputes between me and Nikolay Zlobin. I don't know if you can't see, or you pretend not to see this
You are trying to say that any evil action is possible if it brings you some money
And this is the national idea of the USA. And all other countries need to do the same to be as successful as the USA.
We can't be like the USA because this is a dead-end and the way that leads nowhere.
Our main priority is to create a model, which will be unique and different, allowing us to reach the goals.
I can agree with many things, but not with the fact that our policy pushed the USA to change behavior in the former USSR countries.
We had Medvedev at that time, and Obama decided that he could control all the territory of the former USSR right from Moscow.
They thought it was a liberal government, which could be used for various manipulations.
Talking about the cooperation between Russia and former USSR countries. I think this model comes from our socialistic past...
We have to pay everyone... I like the approach of Trump. He says that you have to pay with money or votes if you want to get support and protection from the USA.
Do we have to do the same?
Now we are making the same things as the USSR did with its Western partners.
We don't have too much time, so let's use short opinions. Obama realized that he had made a mistake with Medvedev when Russia started the peaceful operation.
Putin didn't make a mistake!
Yes, he didn't in 2008
Medvedev was the president in 2008.
Don't search the irony in my words, I'm absolutely serious, and you are smiling.
Nobody is smiling except you.
Maybe you know something what we don't know.
And the second important moment. Bashar Assad is in Sochi today, they met with Vladimir Putin.
And it seems that we are ready to offer an attractive model, which can't be found in the USA.
We have the experience in Iraq and Afghanistan
The USA was there for many years in a row
And what is the final result? Chaos! What do we have now?
The last elections in Iraq resulted in the victory of the power, which hates the USA.
They support Iran, and we talked about it yesterday.
Nikolay Zlobin, and then you.
Be short!
I will try!
Try to speak in short words!
I wrote a book more than 15 years ago, and I told about a new empire, which would offer a new attractive model to all other countries.
So you are Carl Marx!
It wasn't about the foreign policy, but about an efficient internal model!
10, 12 or 15 years ago I wrote that we were living in the world of political losers, because all the models were pale
The problem is that during the last 25 years the world became too American. Almost all the countries followed the American model to build their new world.
They have similar Parliaments, Laws and Constitutions.
Tell me, is there any country that wants to copy the current model of Russia?
That's what I'm talking about! Who can take the Russian model to solve internal problems of the country?
This is my understanding of the model!
Who took their model? There's a democratic model, which can be used in many ways.
I was asked not to talk too much, so I won't make a discussion.
The USSR was an attractive model for a huge number of countries!
They were taking the model of USSR in order to create their new countries!
It was implemented involuntarily...
Not at all!
Who had chosen it?
Where can one find a good model today?
Did Eastern Europe select the model?
Does Russia offer any other model now? Of course not!
What was the model offered to Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya?
Can I finish my speech?
The thing is how the foreign policy affects the life of your own citizens!
Your own citizens!
Trump managed to improve the level of life, bringing more money that it was before his presidential term.
Higher salaries, lower taxes... Why wouldn't they support it?
Why can't we see it in Russia? Why is it so bad?
That's why they support Putin here.
Why is it considered bad?
Since 2000 Russian people can see and feel a lot of changes!
It's bad to kill people to take their money, Nikolay!
This is bad, I agree!
Cheating other people to take their money is bad too!
I agree
All these things are bad!
If Americans don't understand such simple things... Are you people at all?
Get patient! I'm patient!
What a surprise! I've never seen so many emotions from you!
It's evil! It's evil to say that one can kill a person just to take their money!
Record me! Where's the camera! It's not normal!
Bad words about the USA and its citizens (pretty unclear).
Don't lie about my words!
Nikolay, if you do like this once more, you can be filmed in the role of Lenin!
You've just made movements like Vladimir Lenin had done many years before!
I was trying to find your hat in the hand!
Stop scaring us!
I don't say it's normal. My idea is that the national policy has to bring benefits to your own citizens!
Not to Syrian, not to any other people!
You are talking about the same things, but Sergey says that you can't kill a million of Iraqi people for that!
You can't!
And you pretend not to see it!
Or when you say that some bastards destroyed WTC, and you decide to start a war in Afghanistan.
Now the US court says that Iran is guilty
And pilots are from Saudi Arabia
I want to say that people must have moral, and you don't believe in it!
Why are you speaking on my behalf? Because you said it several times!
You said many times that there's no place for moral in the international relations!
Am I right?
Yes, it's right for the foreign policy!
We need to re-think our policy in the former USSR countries. The role of the ambassador in such countries has to be as prestigious as the similar role in Washington.
We need to send real professionals, like Antonov!
We need to increase the salaries for all diplomatic workers!
I remember that I visited Yerevan in 2015 with Dmitry Kiselev
We delivered speech for local experts in the field of political science. And I was shocked with one thing in Yerevan...
There was a giant embassy of the USA.
You just need to see it, to understand my feelings!
We need new embassies! We need to send hundreds and thousands of them!
We need to update the model of cooperation of Rossotrudnichestvo (Russian Cooperation).
The current model is obsolete, and it can't be applied today!
We need to use these tools. New diplomats, new ambassadors...
People have to fight for the right to be an ambassador in a former USSR country!
We need to change priorities. We will face a lot of problems if we lose the former USSR countries.
They also need to learn local languages...
Please
I would like to tell a lot, but we don't have time...
We need to see the difference between the model in the USA, and the model offered by the USA.
The USA prefers to keep all the industrial companies outside of the USA. You need to pay a lot of money to local workers.
So they move all the plants to the South America
But they say: If you want to have investments, there has to be no problems and conflicts!
That's why they choose dictators, who control the country, avoiding any protests
They are democrats, but they want other countries to be dictatorships.
You need to be harsh and strict, otherwise you won't get money
We need to see the difference between the model in the USA, and the model offered by the USA.
As they say, he's a son of a bitch, but he's our son of a bitch!
That's what we have to understand and remember!
I want to notice that Trump changed this approach
Trump understands that his people in "rusty belt" demand him to return the industrial companies to the USA
He is ready to have some expenses.. And have you noticed that they are doing things, which were not recommended to do for us in order to support the international distribution of the labor force.
The level of unemployment has dropped down. It was lower than in Russia... but
Trump ordered things, which were not recommended to do for us in order to support the international distribution of the labor force.
We need to avoid listening their advice. We have to look around at countries and their achievements...
And we have to use all of them with clear mind!
Who knows if the USA has its money in different countries?
Do they buy securities in different countries? Yes, No?
You all have been to the USA, but I want to say that it's pretty hard to exchange Euro there.
Only USD
Maybe at the airport...
The American model was attractive in the previous century.
At that time it was something really important and valuable.
Marshall's plan played a huge role in the restoration of Europe.
The goal was to create industrial companies, and not just send some money for free.
The USA played a key role in the economic miracle in Japan and South Korea.
and even China
South Korea used benefits of China and North Korea
Japan - China and USSR
China was supported because it had the USSR
When the opposition was over, the USA lost their role as a developer
Their rules became really unpleasant for the entire world
Which rules? Take a look at local regimes under the US control,
Even if you are Mubaraq, it doesn't mean that you can't be overthrown during a revolution.
It's like a black box. You don't know what's inside. It doesn't belong to you, and it can be controlled remotely.
and it has a lot of additional hidden features. And this model is used by the US IT companies all over the world.
Is this model attractive for sovereign countries?
I don't think so. Is this model a great choice for a dependent regimes? I don't think so.
It means that the model of the global empire of the USA is vulnerable!
We have a conflict with the USA. We can't become more powerful than the empire!
We can win only if we know how to use these vulnerabilities
And we need to offer a new model for partners, who don't want to depend on the USA
We need to avoid using such black boxes, offering them cooperation and mutual development.
We need to wake up!
And we need to restore the industrial power of the country using our own solutions!
We won't be able to get profits from the sovereignty without it.
I understand that you have to say a lot of things at night, but our time is over!
Thank you! See you on Sunday!